Let me begin by thanking Harris Wofford for his 
contributions to this country in so many different 
ways. He exemplifies what we mean by the word citizen, 
and so we are very grateful to him for all the work he 
has done, and I'm thankful for the gracious and 
thoughtful introduction.

"We the people… in order to form a more perfect 
union…."

Two hundred and twenty-one years ago, in a hall that 
still stands across the street, a group of men 
gathered and, with these simple words, launched 
America's improbable experiment in democracy. Farmers 
and scholars, statesmen and patriots who had traveled 
across the ocean to escape tyranny and persecution 
finally made real their declaration of independence at 
a Philadelphia convention that lasted through the 
spring of 1787.

The document they produced was eventually signed, but 
ultimately unfinished. It was stained by this nation's 
original sin of slavery, a question that divided the 
colonies and brought the convention to a stalemate 
until the founders chose to allow the slave trade to 
continue for at least twenty more years, and to leave 
any final resolution to future generations.

Of course, the answer to the slavery question was 
already embedded within our Constitution—a 
Constitution that had at its very core the ideal of 
equal citizenship under the law; a Constitution that 
promised its people liberty, and justice, and a union 
that could be and should be perfected over time.

And yet words on a parchment would not be enough to 
deliver slaves from bondage, or provide men and women 
of every color and creed their full rights and 
obligations as citizens of the United States. What 
would be needed were Americans in successive 
generations who were willing to do their 
part—through protests and struggles, on the streets 
and in the courts, through a civil war and civil 
disobedience, and always at great risk—to narrow 
that gap between the promise of our ideals and the 
reality of their time.

This was one of the tasks we set forth at the 
beginning of this presidential campaign: to continue 
the long march of those who came before us, a march 
for a more just, more equal, more free, more caring 
and more prosperous America. I chose to run for 
president at this moment in history because I believe 
deeply that we cannot solve the challenges of our time 
unless we solve them together—unless we perfect our 
union by understanding that we may have different 
stories, but we hold common hopes; that we may not 
look the same and may not have come from the same 
place, but we all want to move in the same direction: 
towards a better future for our children and our 
grandchildren.
